Hey guys, welcome to lecture 28.
In this lecture, we're gonna learn how to
use Excel files with Python and pandas.
So I'm just gonna start off
by importing pandas as pd.
And then the important thing to know
here is you're gonna need to install two
modules either using pip install or
conda install.
Pip installs pretty easy just go to your
command line like you've done before and
just type in pip install xlrd
is what we're gonna need,
and we're also going to need
a pip install openpixl.
So once you've pip installed
those guys in your command line
you can use pandas with Excel.
So how do we open an Excel file?
Well I've made an Excel file, so you can
ahead and open up Excel and make a file.
In this file I've just put on the first
row and first column, This is a test.
And then I just made a five
by three set of numbers.
Just random numbers, it doesn't matter.
I'm just gonna go ahead and save this.
It's called lec_28_test, and
I only have information on sheet one.
And I just saved that in the same folder,
where my IPython notebooks are stored.
So go ahead and make an Excel file, or
download one, store it in the same
place where your IPython notebooks are.
Once you've done that, you can go
ahead and name an object xlsfile.
And then using pd.excelfile
We can type in the name of that file,
xlsx.
Really similar to how
we imported csv files.
Whoops, Lec.
There we go,
that's what I called the file, and
then we can set a dframe to parse that.
So we can say xlsfile.parse and we're just
gonna parse that first sheet in
the Excel file, which was called Sheet1.
And let's go ahead and
look at what that dframe looks like.
And there we have it.
So we have that This is a test
as that first column name.
It's automatically indexed all the rows,
0 through 4.
It's put our numbers where we
didn't have named columns.
It just left them as Unnamed: 1,
Unnamed: 2, etc.
And that's how you import
Excel files using pandas.
There's a lot of extra
features you can use,
if you wanted to open up a certain
amount of columns or rows.
If you want to learn more about that, you
can just go to the pandas documentation.
There's a lot of different
arguments you can pass.
You can pass headers,
you can say skip rows,
you can index the columns in a certain
manner, you can parse the columns.
So there's a lot of options you can do.
At this point it would be up to you,
depending on what you want to do with
this certain Excel file you're opening.
So I'll let you go ahead and check out
the documentation there, but as far
as just opening Excel files, all you need
to do is pip install these two modules,
xlrd, openpyxl, set an object and
use pd.ExcelFile to open it, and
then you can parse through the Excel
file to create your data frame.
Okay, that's it for this section.
Next up we're going to learn about
a lot of various data frame techniques
that we can use on our
data to perform analysis.
All right.
I'll see you there.